---
layout: logNoMap
title: "Temporary hiatus due to broken laptop"
author: James
category: daily
---

As I write this, my laptop battery shows a charge of 11%. That 11% is the last
I'll get out of it until I send the laptop back to Asus' shop in Taiwan for
repairs, which, in all likelihood, will take close to two months.

Needless to say, this throws a wrench into the production of posts and the
upload of pictures. Coincidental that such a failure should happen just as I
gear up to repay a serious writing deficit that was encouraged by long
days spent riding across the barren deserts of Utah and Nevada.

Our clever machinery has actually hurt us here: because of the software that
Mike and I wrote to generate the elevation profiles and because of our slick
workflow (publish via git, hosting by github, etc.), the environment required to
post is very particular and very Linux-based. Rabbit, my netbook, is all set
up to accommodate this. Library computers are not; far from it.

I'm still deciding how to handle this. I'll assuredly be cranking out posts for
later transcription to the net (since I want mitigate the toll that time takes
on memory), but probably in longhand, on paper, since I no longer have a laptop
and I sure as hell won't be doing writing on my cell phone[^1]. Pictures may not
hit flickr for a few weeks.

While I'm at it, I might as well mention that Bob Barker found a serious bug in
the website: for a long time, the link to my email in the page footers has been
to an incorrect email address. This has been fixed; I apologize to anyone who
has tried to send me an email and received no response.

The site isn't dead, but it's sure in a coma. Thanks for reading so far. I've
really enjoyed posting and hopefully will figure out a way to continue to do so.

James, at 6%

[^1]: Despite a popular trend in Japan
