
Light was streaming into Brittany's living room through a sliding glass door
when I came to. I was on a leather couch caty corner to the kitchenette. The
gentle knocks of glassware connecting with counter-top came from the kitchenette
arrhythmically. I looked up to see Brittany making coffee; if she was aware of
my consciousness, she didn't let on.

I spent a few minute rolling around and taking occasional glances at her as she
moved deftly through the small kitchenette. There's something very soothing
about being half-awake and watching a pretty woman make coffee in the quiet AM.

After a few minutes of playing dead on the couch, I rattled my sooty vocal
chords enough to signal that yes, please, I'd like a cup of coffee. Brittany
drinks her coffee black, so I poured myself a cup as dark and we began the
sacrament of early morning coffee-drinking in its purest denomination.

Meanwhile, Mike stirred on the couch parallel to the kitchenette. The three of
us wandered a sparse conversation as Brittany made herself a sandwich
for work. She told us that she may not be back tonight since she'd be
baby-sitting immediately after work, but it was fine if we stayed at the
apartment without her.

We said our thank-yous and goodbyes and she left, forgetting her sandwich. Mike
and I took it slow, since it was a rest day, but we eventually collected
ourselves, ate a few toaster pastries, and got moving for Memphis.

Brittany had told us about a bike path which leads from Cordova directly into
midtown, so we scouted that out on our phones.

We tried like hell to find the path, but all we managed to do was cycle through
tall weeds for a few hundred feet before deciding that this likely wasn't the
path we were looking for. We short-cut back to the main road through someone's
yard and finally found the path after a mile or so.
                                 
<div class="imageWithCaption">
	<div class="imageCaption">
	</div>
</div>
                                 
When we hit midtown, we exited off of the path and headed towards a UPS store.
Mike had some maps and a book he wanted to ship back and I had a notebook I
hadn't touched the whole trip. I think the only handwriting I've done thus far
has been on credit-card receipts.

We found the UPS store, locked the bikes, and went in. I gave Mike my netbook
and milled around the store, freezing in my own sweat, while he talked to the
lady tending shop. The radio was tuned to a local station playing overly-sugary,
Auto-Tune'd R&B that was a caricature of itself. 

Our next stop was a bike shop. I went in to the place, Peddler Bike Shop,
while Mike rummaged around in a convenience store for sugary nourishment. 
 
<div class="imageWithCaption">
	<div class="imageCaption">
	</div>
</div>
                                                         
Mike and I suspected that my rear races and cones[^1] were pitted, so I told the
well-kempt redhead at the counter as much. She asked in response if the wheel
was out of true and I told her no, no, I'm pretty sure it's something in the
hub. She then started into this spiel about oh well you know that's something
we'll put you on the calendar for and I'm not sure there are any mechanics
available today and... etc. I then told her that this wouldn't be possible,
since I was riding cross-country and would be leaving town tomorrow.

This had her totally recalibrated. She let out an "oh that's awesome!" and ran
to the back with the Trek, telling me that she couldn't promise anything but
she'd see what she could do.

I meandered around the store, complimenting one of the employees on his
selection of the Hot Chip track that was playing softly over the stereo. When a
stout black mechanic with a pierced eyebrow wandered out from the back and told
me that we needed to talk about my bike. I grinned, knowing what a goddamn heap
it is, and followed him back to his stand.
      
<div class="imageWithCaption">
	<div class="imageCaption">
	</div>
</div>

With a northern-accented voice, the mechanic explained to me that he could tell,
even before taking the wheel off, that some vibrations spelled bad news for my
hub. He said that rebuilding the hub, i.e. taking it apart, cleaning it out,
reapplying grease, and reassembling, was probably futile, but he may be able to
do it. He also said he could check to see if he had any new wheels that could be
substituted in for the current one.

After discussing the problem with Mike earlier at the Jordans', I had expected
that I'd need a new rear wheel. Mike had given me an estimate of around $100, so
I steeled and then asked the mechanic what kind of price-range we were talking
for a new wheel. He shocked the hell out of me by replying, "oh, thirty or forty
bucks." You kidding!? I can't afford *not* to buy a new rear wheel!

I basically tackled him with an affirmative response and he, probably wondering
what paper factory I grew up in, went into a closet to find a suitable wheel. He
came out with some slick looking, double-walled piece of work with thick, fresh,
spokes and told me it was a little more expensive than he'd said: $45. I told
him to go for it and he went to work. I watched him, sitting on a wooden stool
next to the stand.

As I watched his steady hands disassemble the bike with practiced ease, we got
to talking. Turns out that this guy had made a cross-country trip himself: West
Memphis to San Francisco. He said that he'd designed his own route over the
course of a few months, taken a leave of absence from his gig, and had made the
trip in a month, meeting his girlfriend at the end.

His route had been cut farther north than we'd planned to; he made it all the
way up to Portland, then cut down the coast on route 1.

Mike found his way around the corner and to the stand, and the mechanic (who
wore a khaki uniform which had him named "The King") continued talking about
some of the wild antics he'd seen sleeping on the beach in California and
kicking around Portland.

In Portland, he'd said, a cycling community had gathered at the top of the
biggest hill in the city to descend on kiddie-bikes. Some participants were wearing
full-facial masks and, twenty seconds after the safety rules were explained and
the race started, someone crashed smack into a parked car.

By now, The King had my hub decomposed into its constituent pieces and showed us
my horribly-pitted cone. A new wheel was definitely in order; The King slapped
it on and we kept chatting about our tour, places we should see in Memphis, and
his plans to move to DC with his girlfriend.

After he'd finished with the wheel, he went on with a general tune-up
unprompted. He adjusted my rear-derailleur, tweaked my cantilever break pads (a
real pain in the ass; he did a bang-up job in seconds), and oiled my
front-derailleur cable.

The bike was spic and span, so he led us up to the register. I was expecting a
bill of at least 90, 100 dollars, but when we got to the counter, he told the
redhead to charge me a meager $10 bucks for labor. When I got hold of the
receipt, they'd knocked 15% off of the total.

I got a picture with The King, whose name turns out to be Dennis, and he slipped
the both of us business cards.

If you're ever in Memphis, check out [Peddler bike
shop](http://peddlerbikeshop.com/); they took great care of me. Many thanks
to Dennis and the redheaded girl working the front.

Once outside of Peddler's, Mike and I decided that we were hungry for lunch.
After stopping by a hardware store for a few extra bolts, we headed to a place
Dennis had recommended in Cooper-Young, the Young Avenue Deli. We hightailed it
up south Cooper and sat up at the bar for a Shrimp Po' Boy and two boutique
brews apiece. A neon sign towered over the dark, high-ceilinged ballroom,
demanding *EAT*.

The beer filled us with a pleasant buzz that made the outside world into a room
in an unreal funhouse, the hazy heat and bright glare disorienting and slightly
comical. We decided to find a coffee shop so that Mike could make use of
rabbit[^2] to do some detailed planning.
                                          
<div class="imageWithCaption">
	<div class="imageCaption">
	</div>
</div>

Google referred us to a place a few blocks up, Outlands. We pedaled there and
were pleased with what we found; a very roomy shop playing good music, spread
over multiple rooms. We found a central table within the biggest of the rooms
and got to work. Once Mike was set up with rabbit, I could either twiddle with
my cellphone or read the first few pages of *On the Road*. I said, "Jeez, I'm
reading *On the Road* in a real coffeeshop. This is heavy." and a guy at an
adjacent table snickered and shook his head. Ray Parker Jr.'s Ghostbusters theme
came on.

Oddly enough, I think this was the first time I've hung out at a *real*
coffeeshop; back in northern Virginia, there's really no reason to go anywhere
but Starbucks, so I never did. The difference is about what you'd expect: the
atmosphere is marginally more interesting and the pastries are twice as expensive.

I made sure to tag the bathroom chalkboard with a supply/demand curve to
compensate for all the mostly-thoughtless, artsy bullshit that was up there
already[^3]. Mike was done, so we bought a few baked goods, snacked, then left
for Beale St.

On the way to Beale St., I had a realization: never has there been a stage in my
life during which I had such undirected, uninfluenced control over the way that
I spend my own time. 

From age 6, it's been glass-clear what my daily, weekly, and monthly schedule
should resemble. Go to kindergarten, come home, watch TV, go to sleep.
Go to grade school instead. Go to high school, come home, waste time,
half-ass homework, sleep. Go to four-year college, study hard, get degree.

Fifty years ago, this automation existed only up until age 16; sure, high school
was expected, but not everyone wanted to (or needed to) go to a college. Now,
college is a given. In five years, you'll be scoffed at if you haven't attended
grad school.

For the first time in my life, riding through the mostly-dilapidated Memphis
streets, it wasn't clear what I was supposed to be doing or where I was supposed
to be a month from now. Hell, if I wanted to stay in Memphis a week longer, I
could do it (though Mike would be none too happy).

It made me wonder if this growing automation of life-choices and paths in
younger generations isn't stifling creativity. Isn't the key to leading an
awesome life figuring out how to best spend your time? How can we expect to be
good at macroscopic time management if we don't start practicing until we're 25?
Isn't a baseline 16 years of insular schooling a little excessive? 

There's a whole goddamn beautiful world out there and we're spending our youth
taking Cultural Studies classes from a 34-year-old Yale graduate and paying
exorbitant prices for vapid textbooks with our parents' money. 

Anyway, realizing that my time is my own to spend hit me like a crowbar and what
a rush it was.

We got to Beale St., locked the bikes, and toddled around. 

Beale Street is a huge tourist trap. To be fair, we didn't see it at night when the
bars are all pulsing and the air is full of slide-guitar, but we couldn't find
any bluesy dives. I'm sure there's great music at BB King's, but it wasn't the
Mississippi-delta raunch we were looking for.

We headed north of Beale to the Flying Saucer, a large beer bar reputed to have
a huge selection. They did, and we enjoyed sitting at an old, wooden table and
studying the four-page menu of beers like accountants in early April. Mike and I
placed an order with the saccharine-but-serious barmaid, the one that works every
high-volume counter in the country, and sat sipping brews and talking
philosophy.

Since we were buzzed and on our day off, this is the first time Mike and I got
to have a non-trip-related conversation. We talked about Christianity, which led
into a debate about whether or not there is such a thing as Truth. I was in
Truth's corner; Mike, being a mathematician, demands perfect rigor and therefore
disqualified any sort of absolute from being useful, eventually denouncing all
of statistics by poo-pooing the Central Limit Theorem. Obviously, we were pretty
sauced by then.

[^1]: the parts of the wheel which the bearings rest against.
[^2]: "rabbit" is the hostname of my netbook
[^3]: I preach even on vacations.
    
%%%
{'mapURL':'http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&hl=en&msa=0&msid=205146746303315582883.0004a50fb965889f9a997&ll=35.058526,-89.998283&spn=0.055082,0.110378&z=13&output=kml',
 'date': '2011-6-4',
 'title': "Day 18: Memphis and The Kings",
 'category': 'daily',
 'size': (460,120),
 'author': 'James'}                                  
