
Mike and I went to bed around 11PM last night in Bob Atkins' Wytheville home
after talking with Bob about inductive charging for electric cars, venture
capital, and finally (the terminus for all conversations vaguely related to
money) the subprime mortgage crisis of 2007.

We yaked pleasantly for an hour or two in his livingroom, enjoying modern
furniture and the view of Wytheville visible through the glass seperating the
balcony from us. When the conversation came to a natural close, we shuffled off
to the bathroom, now only perfunctorily performing hygienic activities; we'd
been spoiled by three (count 'em three) nights indoors.

Since Bob had a bed for each of us, I don't even remember hitting the sheets
last night. I don't even think I changed positions.

The sunlight streaming into the guestroom woke us, five before seven. Bob called
us out and we sat down to breakfast. I enjoyed a rare treat: hot, black coffee.
Bob is a magician with a french press. We then wolfed a hearty breakfast of
bacon, eggs, toast, and English muffins. Bob claimed he could only cook "simple
shit," but for my money, simple shit is all it takes.

We said goodbye to Bob, forgetting to get a picture with him. We finished
packing up, briefly debated strapping the 12 of Coors Light to our bikes, then
left the beautiful Wytheville estate for 11 South.

The driveway approaching Bob's neighborhood was an incredibly steep ascent[^1], so
the descent happened quick. On final and steepest downhill, I didn't brake hard
enough and made the turn onto 11 way too quickly; a patch of gravel locked my
back wheel into a slide and I thought I'd be eating lunch out of a tube.
Luckily, the wheel slid into pavement and static friction did a little work. My
balance came back and we were off.

The first portion of the ride was relaxing. I examined each part of my body to
figure out where tension was and whether or not that exertion was necessary. I
relaxed certain parts (shoulders, stomach) as the hilly, green country whipped
by. 

10 miles out or so, we passed a church. The billboard in front of the church
read
> WINTER'S OVER:
> LET'S GO TO CHURCH
which is, to date, the most dumbfounding catch-phrase I've seen on a church
billboard (and we've passed around 30 by now). Is there a branch of Christianity
that only meets in warm weather? Or they just pushing a new divine mandate that
prohibits the use of snow shovels? I dunno, but I'll report back when I find a
holy slogan that tops that one.

We rolled on to a very small town called Atkins and we stopped outside of an
abandoned deli for a snack break. After two or three delicious selections from
Food Bag 2 apiece, we kept moving. The wonderful thing about snack breaks is that
when they're over, my bike is lighter than before. Conversely, the awful thing
about Walmart trips is that, after I'm done bathing in the intoxicating sea of
discount snack items, my bike is much heavier than it was before. Yin and yang,
or some such tripe.

After Atkins, we hit some stretch between towns where a few houses and a church
had been worked over by a tornado. Giant spliters of wood were still jutting
outwards, walls were still missing, and roofs were still precariously
unsupported because the columns once there had been ripped away. A Sunoco still
stood, though obviously roughed up.

We rode on into Chilhowie, which was a town with slightly greater ripples of
civilization. We parked on the side of a gas station, listened to David Bowie
play over the loadspeaker, and watched a beer merchandiser go back and forth
with stacks of corn lager. After a while, I went into the station and browsed
for the sake of browsing, just to see some variety and to simulate making
choices. It's fun to do hypothetical comparisons between brightly-colored
Hostess pastries. At least when you're on a cross-country bike trip.
Eventually I sold myself on one of those gas-station cherry pies, walked
out, and began munching it next to Mike. We watched the beer guy play the
back-and-forth some more and took shots out of our water-bottles.

Around 12:30PM, we hit Abingdon, which was the largest town we'd seen all day.
In fact, the place was *too* civilized for us: we tried three restaurants
before finding one with a suitably low price-range. A note to the audience:
grass on the roof and a sign claiming that an establishment was founded in
1770-something is a great heuristic for ruling out a joint on the basis of
price.

RIght as Mike got a flat, we found a Mexican place that was suitably cheap. We
locked the bikes and walked in. The eatery was dim and cool; the proprietors had
spray-painted the walls to look like the internals of a Mayan temple and there
were beer advertisements hanging from the ceiling. I guess this is what happens
when you take Mexico and leave it in a hot car in southern Virginia for a few
days.

Mike and I happily strafed into a booth and our waiter floated up to us
immediately. Mike said that he had a strangely relaxed cadence in his speech. In
a minute, we were situated with lemon'd water and perusing a surprisingly
professional menu. In ten minutes, I was staring at two hot enchiladas and
wondering if there was any way I wouldn't trade the Alamo for two more. We
shoveled, sat, paid, and left. The woman at the register prounounced "Michael"
like a Spanish aristocrat.

Mike's flat still had to be dealt with, so we found a patch of shady grass,
pulled out some tire levers, and Mike got to work. I did what I always do when
Mike is fixing a flat: take a cat-nap on my back with legs arched. Some
indefinite time later, Mike finished and we saddled up for the final leg of the
day's ride to Bristol.

The ride to Bristol was around 14 miles, and we made good time. Coming in to the
city, we saw a Starbucks and Mike had to restrain me. We rolled down to the
VA-TN border, crossed it gingerly for ceremony, then Mike realized his headset
had come loose. We googled a bike shop and luckily it was only three blocks
west. Fifteen minutes later, Mike's bike is fine and we're enroute to a coffee
shop, Java J.


[^1]: we had to resort to the stand-up-on-your-bike-and-pump method that
everyone uses excessively in grade school and then never afterward for fear of
social ostrasization.

%%%
{'mapURL':'',
 'date': '2011-5-25',
 'title': "Day 8: ",
 'category': 'daily',
 'size': (460,120),
 'author': 'James'}                                 
